-------------------------------
COPYRIGHT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER
-------------------------------

All of the tunes available in the High Voltage SID Collection (HVSC) are
copyrighted.

Such copyright may be owned by the original authors/software companies or a
third-party publisher or other organisation. The copyright ownership of the
tune is not necessarily the same as the attribution in the SID itself, or in
any of the STIL documents. It might be owned by the composer, the software
house, a publisher, or some other third party organisation.

Use of the SIDs in this collection for any purpose other than private
enjoyment is subject to relevant copyright law. While remixing of the tunes
for non-commercial audio purposes without the permission of the composer tends
to be tolerated or encouraged, this is not a right, and any other use
(including YouTube use) requires additional permissions.

Please also note that these tunes are unsuitable to be used within anything
released on Creative Commons licences, without a further agreement with the
rights holder.

Unauthorised commercial exploitation of any tune in this collection is illegal.

Please note that the creators of this collection do not have (and neither do
they claim) the legal authority to grant licences or collect royalties or
other contributions to permit any use. Do not offer any such contributions to
them, for none will be accepted.

The copyrights to some of the SID files in this collection are now copyright
administered by High Technology Publishing Limited and appear in HVSC with
their explicit permission on behalf of the composers. All other rights are
reserved.

For any usage apart from audio remixing, you should endeavor to contact the
original C64 composer to ensure not just permission but also that the composer
gets due authorship credit (and any appropriate payment).

As a first point of contact for matters such as these, feel free to contact
Chris Abbott <chris (sid) c64audio.com>.

Further, HVSC accepts no responsibility for the use of any language, whether
it be in the SID file names or any speech samples, which you may consider
offensive. It is up to you to decide whether to listen to those SIDs or not.

